Researchers are at the forefront of technology and discovery; they are responsible for all the inventions present today that make our lives easier. This project aims at creating a one-stop solution for all the researchers to go about their work. One of the important tasks that a researcher carries out is understanding the existing research to build up on it. To do so, various applications and databases are now present where a vast amount of data is stored for them to utilise. Several issues can be pointed out with these applications and databases. A few of those are:
i) It would be a tedious task to keep switching between databases such as Google Scholar or IEEE for their research work all the time.
ii)To understand a researcher’s work, one has to go through all their previous works.
iii) Lack of analytics to understand the work of a university or an individual researcher in one go.
iv)  No proper way to streamline the process of reviewing a whole university/company work other than going through each profile and logging the information.
The proposed solution, ScholarSearch, involves a layered approach towards streamlining the necessary tools required for an all-round research platform. This approach leverages LLMs, Google’s Firebase and App Engine along with React and FastAPI. ScholarSearch reimagines the world of research, providing users with various features that allow users to streamline their work.
 The first layer of the solution deals with searching the best databases in the world and gathering necessary information according to the user’s search. These databases include Google Scholar, DBLP, Scopus, etc. ScholarSearch eliminates the tedious work of utilizing various databases. The extensive data-gathering process ensures that any search made by the user will be met with research papers from the largest repositories of data.
The second layer of the solution involves a handy “Upload Excel” option, where a university can upload the list of their employees and ScholarSearch displays their profiles by fetching their data after a strict search. The idea revolves around adding a sense of functionality by allowing users to get the desired results cleanly and simply. Their results from the searches are then allowed to be “Exported” in the form of Excel, Word or Bibtex format. Streamlining a review process is now easier, faster and one click away through ScholarSearch.
The third layer allows users/universities to review their individual/employees’ work through a thorough dashboard that displays the key statistics of a college or person. These statistics would allow the user to draw faster conclusions and dedicate the rest of the time to coming up with further solutions to better their dashboard. This dashboard will serve as a parameter of the quality, quantity and other key factors necessary to carry out research work.
The fourth layer, and the game-changer, is the “Author-based summary” tool that allows users to look at an author’s work, summarized into a few paragraphs, instead of going through all their previous work. This tool leverages the use of LLMs through Groq allowing ScholarSearch to not only be a source that collects data from the best databases but also a place where individual work of each author can be understood and analyzed in one go. This feature, when combined with the dashboard analytics, proves to be crucial for any researcher in the world to conclude an individual’s work.
The fifth layer involves a series of querying and filtering layers that allow users to have their desired results comfortably. These filters include year of publication, research topic, affiliations, location and many more. These filters are curated after understanding the work of researchers and their usual thought process as to what they would need while working on a new topic or domain. This would allow individuals to streamline their research, and get desired outputs more efficiently than ever.
The final layer is our user-friendly interface that allows users to navigate and control the application more smoothly and efficiently. ScholarSearch automates individual researchers’ works and displays them in numbers for the world to see. These individuals can be searched through our filter-based search engine, streamlining this process. 

